The Akaike Information Criterion is
a measure of the relative quality of
a statistical model.
The calculation of AIC deals with the
tradeoff between the goodness of fit of
the model and
the complexity of the model.
An AIC value of a single
model cannot tell us
any information regarding
the model's quality.
It is used to compare many
different models produced
from the same time series.
If all the candidate models fit poorly,
AIC will not give any warning of that.
When comparing AIC values,
the lowest value among the models
is considered the best fit.
Let's open up our two workflows from
our ETS and Arema model construction.
We'll start with the ETS model and
compare the results of the AIC values
for both model types we
used in the workflow.
Looking at our results
of our ETS models,
the non-dampened model had the lower
AIC, suggesting that moving forward,
it will produce the best results.
It also means,
based on this calculation,
that the model was a better fit and
less complex than the dampened model.
The Arema models show that the
additional MA term produced a slightly
better fit to our series.
Going forward, we want to include
two MA terms for our forecast.
With Altryx you can utilize an auto
model build algorithm that uses the AIC
to determine the best model.
This means Altryx will set the terms for
your model, and
choose the one with
the lowest AIC value.
Neat?
To run an auto-produced model,
simply drag and drop an ARIMA or
ETS tool on the canvas, pick a model
name, set the target field and
target field frequency,
then on the Other Options tab,
select the number of periods
to include in the forecast.
Now, click run.
The ETS and
ARIMA tools are actually set to
auto calculate the model
with the lowest AIC value